Okay, so we're gonna jump into
the fun part of this course now,
we're gonna animate some stuff.
Let's talk about micro-interactions.
So micro-interactions are small
animations whose purpose is
to really delight the users and
provide feedback for things.
So some of the benefits
of this aren't above and
beyond just delighting our users,
they can have a lot of positive impacts.
So we can actually alter our user
sense of perceived performance.
So users are actually willing
to wait a longer time if they
think something is going on.
And this is where perceived
performance can really
be benefited by incorporating animations.
Micro-interactions can also update
users about the status of a task, so
if you're doing a transaction, like you
see here, it can inform users that hey,
it's successful, or hey, it's processing.
These animations can be used to indicate
state change, so if they're typing in
a form, and there's something wrong or
if the form is not correct,
we can use those animations to
indicate those state changes.
We can use micro-interactions
to draw attention, so
this is like the typing indicator
on an iPhone or in Slack.
A lot of social media applications will
use these interactions to create habits,
so when we click like,
that cute little interaction
that actually subconsciously
will cause you to form a habit.
But also sometimes they can just turn
really boring tasks that you have to do,
like signing up for an account or
filling out a form, make them fun.
Just a couple of tips when you use
animations in your component library.
First of all, obviously,
they have to be accessible.
So make sure that anything that you
are doing is able to be read by
a screen reader.
Also be intentional, like don't draw
animations on absolutely everything,
I know it's fun but be really intentional.
Animations draw the user's focus and so it
should only be used in the most prominent
parts of your application or
your components.
Also something that we typically
struggle with, with CSS animations,
as making them feel like
they're part of the real world.
When we're creating CSS animations
are typically very linear,
even with cubic Bezier functions,
they can feel a little bit mechanical.
So React Spring is nice, so we'll see in
a minute, it's a physics based library.
So try to incorporate different elements
of the real world to animate your items.
And never make your users wait for
an animation,
like if you are showing
a loading indicator and
you think it's really snazzy,
if their data is loaded, show it to them.
There's nothing worse than
going to like a webpage and
you see like this loading
progress indicator, and
you know the webpages loaded, they just
wanted to show you their fancy animation.
So please don't do that.
[LAUGH]